README.md, before:

# rc-proj #
Custom (Matlab) analyses used for experiments studying post-injury plasticity in bilateral rostral and caudal forelimb area in rats. Most code was developed in Matlab R2017a/b.

---

## Contents ##

[videoAlignment](#video-alignment)  
[videoScoring](#video-scoring)  
[spikeAnalyses](#spike-analyses)  

---

## Video Alignment ##

### Setup ###
There are three setup steps to run the video alignment:  

1. Need to have all the video files in one folder, and update the variable VID_DIR in alignVideo.m to reflect that path.  

2. Need to have all the .csv files generated by DeepLabCut in order to guess the "best" offset latency between video and neural data, based on cross-correlation between beam breaks and times the paw is detected (and associated probabilities). These should be in the same folder as the video files, and they should have the same naming convention as the video files (i.e. _RC-##_YYYY_MM_DD_#_).  

3. Need to have all the digital streams .mat files associated with a given video. These can be in any location, since they are what are selected through the UI if no other arguments are passed to the alignVideo.m function.  

In Matlab, navigate to the videoAlignment sub-folder in your local cloned repository (or add all folders and subfolders in this path to the current path) and run:  

```matlab
alignVideo;
```  

(Advanced) You can specify 'NAME', value input argument pairs instead of modifying the code directly:  

```matlab
alignVideo('DEF_DIR','/path/where/mat/files/exist');
```  
 
```matlab
alignVideo('VID_DIR','/path/where/videos/exist','FNAME','/full/file/name/of/mat/file');
```  

### Use ###


 
---

## Video Scoring ##

  
---

## Spike Analyses ##

  
---

Commit message:

Major changes to back-end (front-end should be the same). This is to unify the classes used for the alignment and scoring tools, and make the scoring tool more flexible to different scoring formats. The way the events and listeners for the information classes and the graphics update class (formally the "listener" class) is modified as well. Video scoring tool isn't quite ready but alignment tool is still functioning in the same way. -MM

README.md, after:

# rc-proj #
Custom (Matlab) analyses used for experiments studying post-injury plasticity in bilateral rostral and caudal forelimb area in rats. Most code was developed in *Matlab R2017a/b.*

---

## Contents ##

[Video Alignment](#video-alignment)  
[Behavioral Scoring](#video-scoring)  
[Spike Analyses](#spike-analyses)  

---

## Video Alignment ##

### Setup ###
There are three setup steps to run the video alignment:  

1. Need to have all the video files in one folder, and update the variable VID_DIR in alignVideo.m to reflect that path.  

2. Need to have all the .csv files generated by DeepLabCut in order to guess the "best" offset latency between video and neural data, based on cross-correlation between beam breaks and times the paw is detected (and associated probabilities). These should be in the same folder as the video files, and they should have the same naming convention as the video files (i.e. _RC-##_YYYY_MM_DD_#_).  

3. Need to have all the digital streams .mat files associated with a given video. These can be in any location, since they are what are selected through the UI if no other arguments are passed to the alignVideo.m function.  

4. (Optional) Include "_Guess.mat" file in the same location as the digital streams .mat files for a particular video. Including this file will skip the initial step where it tries to guess the optimal alignment and can save a couple of minutes each time you load a video to align.

In Matlab, navigate to the videoAnalyses sub-folder in your local cloned repository (or add all folders and subfolders in this path to the current path) and run:  

```matlab
alignVideo;
```  

(Advanced) You can specify 'NAME', value input argument pairs instead of modifying the code directly:  

```matlab
alignVideo('DEF_DIR','/path/where/mat/files/exist');
```  
 
```matlab
alignVideo('VID_DIR','/path/where/videos/exist','FNAME','/full/file/name/of/mat/file');
```  

### Use ###


 
---

## Video Scoring ##

### Setup ###

### Use ###

  
---

## Spike Analyses ##

  
---
